content/blog/2026-01-12-week-4-got-webmentions/index.md, before:

---
title: "Week 4 - Got Webmentions"
date: 2026-01-18
tags:
  - weeknote
  - weekly update
draft: false
---

- 🗨️ Added the ability to send and receive [webmentions](https://indieweb.org/Webmention) to the blog.
- ✉️ Received an actual real life email from [Dan](https://danq.me/) to let me know he had sent the first one and it wasn't showing up, so I had to rush out the code to actually display webmentions, too!
- 🧰 Setup a little personal API to handle the guestbook, visitor counter, and aforementioned webmentions.
- 📺 Setup a dashboard on my homelab for monitoring all of the above.
- 🛜 Added an RSS feed for the blog. I've made my full posts available via RSS so you can consume them however you please.
- 💏 Made some significant progress towards our plans for moving house, and life in general!
- 🎁 Found some awesome little bits of tech and my wife kindly agreed to get them for my birthday next month, they will absolutely be showing up on the blog some time after that.
- 🧑‍💻 Wrote a script that can take a video with subtitles and a string of text, and return the gif of the clip. I wrote a blog post about it, and it's on my GitHub.

## Links I Found Interesting

- [iCloud Photos Downloader](https://github.com/icloud-photos-downloader/icloud_photos_downloader) and [Photos Backup Anywhere](https://photosbackup.app/) - Two useful looking things for backing up my Photos library

- [Zootopia 2](https://blog.yiningkarlli.com/2025/12/zootopia-2.html) - CG Engineer from Walt Disney Studios talks about some of the technical stuff from making Zootopia 2.

- [What I Have Learned Being on the IndieWeb for a Month](https://brennan.day/what-i-have-learned-being-on-the-indieweb-for-a-month/) - Brennan reviews what he has learnt from being on the IndieWeb for a month, and I definitely feel like I should post something similar very soon - I still have a few week or so!

- [Pocket TTS](https://kyutai.org/blog/2026-01-13-pocket-tts) - A tiny TTS application that can run locally.

## Music

- 📺 [Mortal Kombat x Rhythm is a Dancer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vKxn6P947PE)
- 🦄 [GWAR cover “Pink Pony Club” by Chappell Roan](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I5XR48KLE8I)

## Next Week

Not necessary

Until next week!

Commit message:

weekly post ready to go

content/blog/2026-01-12-week-4-got-webmentions/index.md, after:

---
title: "Week 4 - Got Webmentions"
date: 2026-01-18
tags:
  - weeknote
  - weekly update
draft: false
---

- 🗨️ Added the ability to send and receive [webmentions](https://indieweb.org/Webmention) to the blog.
- ✉️ Received an actual real life email from [Dan](https://danq.me/) to let me know he had sent the first one and it wasn't showing up, so I had to rush out the code to actually display webmentions, too!
- 🧰 Setup a little personal API to handle the guestbook, visitor counter, and aforementioned webmentions.
- 📺 Setup a dashboard on my homelab for monitoring all of the above.
- 🛜 Added an RSS feed for the blog. I've made my full posts available via RSS so you can consume them however you please.
- 💏 Made some significant progress towards our plans for moving house, and life in general!
- 🎁 Found some awesome little bits of tech and my wife kindly agreed to get them for my birthday next month, they will absolutely be showing up on the blog some time after that.
- 🧑‍💻 Wrote a script that can take a video with subtitles and a string of text, and return the gif of the clip. I wrote a [blog post about it](/blog/video-to-gif-converter/), and it's on [GitHub](https://github.com/unbolt/VidToSubGif).

## Links I Found Interesting

- [iCloud Photos Downloader](https://github.com/icloud-photos-downloader/icloud_photos_downloader) and [Photos Backup Anywhere](https://photosbackup.app/) - Two useful looking things for backing up my Photos library

- [Zootopia 2](https://blog.yiningkarlli.com/2025/12/zootopia-2.html) - CG Engineer from Walt Disney Studios talks about some of the technical stuff from making Zootopia 2.

- [What I Have Learned Being on the IndieWeb for a Month](https://brennan.day/what-i-have-learned-being-on-the-indieweb-for-a-month/) - Brennan reviews what he has learnt from being on the IndieWeb for a month, and I definitely feel like I should post something similar very soon - I still have a few week or so!

- [Pocket TTS](https://kyutai.org/blog/2026-01-13-pocket-tts) - A tiny TTS application that can run locally.

## Music

- 📺 [Mortal Kombat x Rhythm is a Dancer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vKxn6P947PE)
- 🦄 [GWAR cover “Pink Pony Club” by Chappell Roan](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I5XR48KLE8I)

## Weekly Listening Stats

**Total Tracks:** 230

**Top 5 Artists:**

- [blink-182](https://www.last.fm/music/blink-182) - 19 plays
- [Kavinsky](https://www.last.fm/music/Kavinsky) - 13 plays
- [Linkin Park](https://www.last.fm/music/Linkin+Park) - 13 plays
- [Carpenter Brut](https://www.last.fm/music/Carpenter+Brut) - 12 plays
- [Lazerhawk](https://www.last.fm/music/Lazerhawk) - 12 plays

## Next Week

This week I want to make a start on a choose your own adventure style story that can be played in the terminal on my homepage. That should keep me out of trouble for a bit. I also have some plans to do the balancing pass on my idle/clicker game and find a way to export it and get a section on the site for that. The Godot export was over 100mb which GitHub didn't enjoy, so I need to work on that.

Until next week!
